feat: Add metadata refresh docs (#120)
immutable/imx-docs: docs/main/guides/asset-management/asset-metadata-refreshes.md

---
id: 'asset-metadata-refreshes'
title: 'Asset Metadata Refreshes'
slug: '/asset-metadata-refreshes'
sidebar_position: 3
keywords: [imx-games]
---

# Asset metadata refreshes

A metadata refresh can be requested in order to update the off-chain asset metadata for a set of assets belonging to a particular collection.

[Read more about asset metadata.](/docs/asset-metadata)

## Use cases

Below are some examples of why developers refresh metadata:

> - gameplay mechanics - orchestrate updates to support core gameplay mechanics like levelling up a character, crafting or merging

Reviewer: Can we capitalize the first word of each dot point?

Author: Yep, now updated

- correcting incorrect metadata values

## Requirements

In order for a refresh to be successful, partners must ensure:

- they have created and deployed their [Metadata API](/docs/minting-on-immutable-x#metadata-api)
  - this is the source of truth for asset metadata
- specific asset metadata is available from the Metadata API
  - for reveals, we recommend to only update their Metadata API once the asset is ready to be revealed. A typical flow for a reveal would be something like:
    - mint an asset
    - once ready to reveal, update the Metadata API with the properties to be revealed
    - request a metadata refresh for the assets wanting to be revealed
- ensure the availability of your Metadata API. The metadata refresh service will concurrently request metadata for each asset from your Metadata API and requires a response time of less than 3 seconds per request in order to successfully update the metadata for that asset. If the request to the Metadata API fails it will be retried once more before that particular asset is [marked as failed.](#viewing-metadata-refresh-errors)

> ## API

Reviewer: Do you think we should have a section for the main errors that can be returned?

Author: This would be now under the section `Error codes`, would that be ok?

Endpoints related to metadata refreshes are denoted via the url resource `/metadata-refreshes`.

> The expected maximum time (estimated) to complete a refresh is roughly 48 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The expected maximum time (estimate) to complete a refresh is approximately 48 hours.
```

### Authentication

Metadata refresh endpoints are protected via authentication - only the project owner will be able to call these endpoints.

The following headers are required for project owner authentication:

> - `x-imx-eth-address` - the eth address of the project owner making the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `x-imx-eth-address` - the Ethereum address of the project owner making the request
```

- `x-imx-signature` - the signature generated by the project owner
- `x-imx-timestamp` - the timestamp used to generate the signature

[View an example on how to generate project owner authentication headers.](/sdk-docs/core-sdk-ts/authentication/)

### Requesting a metadata refresh

A metadata refresh can be requested by calling:

```json

> POST BASE_URL/v1/metadata-refreshes

Reviewer 2: Could remove `BASE_URL`

Author: removed

```

and specifying the collection address and ID’s of the tokens requiring a refresh:

```json
{
  "collection_address": "0x9a48b1b27743d807331d06ecf0bfb15c06fdb58d", // required
  "token_ids": ["1", "2"] // required
}
```

The user will receive the following response with a HTTP status code of **202 Accepted**:

```json
{
  "refresh_id": "21566bcb-4263-48bb-a495-602ba9a12f2c"
}
```

The `refresh_id` acts as a receipt and confirms that the refresh has been initiated and will be processed. It can be used to query the status of a particular refresh.

There is currently no way to cancel a refresh once requested.

<!-- INSERT_LINK - View the OpenAPI specification for requesting a metadata refresh -->

### Viewing the status of a metadata refresh

The status of a refresh can be queried by using the `refresh_id` with the following endpoint:

```json

> GET BASE_URL/v1/metadata-refreshes/:refresh_id

Reviewer 2: Do we need the BASE_URL here? I think we could just say `/v1/metadata-refreshes` to be cleaner.

Author: agreed, removed

```

which will return the following response:

```json
{
  "refresh_id": "21566bcb-4263-48bb-a495-602ba9a12f2c",
  "status": "completed",
  "collection_address": "0x9a48b1b27743d807331d06ecf0bfb15c06fdb58d",
  "started_at": "2022-08-31T01:59:59.806449Z",
  "completed_at": "2022-08-31T02:00:09.786143Z",
  "summary": {
    "succeeded": 2,
    "failed": 0,
    "pending": 0
  }
}
```

#### Status

The status field of a refresh can be the following values:

- `queued` - the refresh has been requested but no tokens have been processed
- `in_progress` - the refresh has started processing and at least 1 token has been processed
- `completed` - all tokens have been processed

#### Summary

The summary field of a refresh displays the counts of the status of individual tokens belonging to that refresh:

- `succeeded` - the metadata for this token has been successfully updated
- `failed` - the metadata for this token was not able to be updated
- `pending` - the token has not been processed

Another endpoint is available to [investigate the reason why the metadata for a particular token could not be updated.](#viewing-metadata-refresh-errors)

> <!-- INSERT_LINK - View the OpenAPI specification for requesting a metadata refresh -->

Author: Once the metadata refresh service open api spec is merged with https://api.ropsten.x.immutable.com/openapi-docs i will enable these links

Author: [This pr](https://github.com/immutable/imx-engine/pull/3150) needs to be pushed out before I can uncomment these links

Author: links now added to updated api reference pages

### Viewing metadata refresh errors

If 2 non-successful attemps have been made to retrieve the updated metadata values from the [Metadata API](/docs/minting-on-immutable-x#metadata-api), that token will be marked as `failed`. A more detailed explanation of why token metadata could not be updated for a particular refresh can be queried with the following endpoint:

```json

> GET BASE_URL/v1/metadata-refreshes/:refresh_id/errors

Reviewer 2: Remove `BASE_URL`

Author: removed

```

which will return a paginated list of tokens within that refresh that could not be updated and their respective error details:

```json
{
  "result": [
    {
      "token_id": "1",
      "collection_address": "0x9a48b1b27743d807331d06ecf0bfb15c06fdb58d",
      "client_token_metadata_url": "https://metadata-api.io/1",
      "client_response_status_code": 404,
      "client_response_body": "404 page not found\n",
      "error_code": "invalid_response_status_code",
      "created_at": "2022-09-06T02:14:04.935946Z"
    }
  ],
  "cursor": "eyJjcmVhdGVkX2F0IjoiMjAyMi0wOS0wNlQwMjoxNDowNC45MzU5NDZaIiwiaWQiOiIyYzU2ZDE5Ni1mY2ViLTQ1MzItYmMzOC0zZmZlMTFlOTM4Y2UifQ",
  "remaining": 0
}
```

Each item in the results array represents one failed token for that particular refresh.

#### client_token_metadata_url

The url which was used to perform the Metadata API request.

#### client_response_status_code

The response status code that was received from the Metadata API.

#### client_response_body

Any error details that were provided as a response body by the Metadata API.

#### error_code

> The error_code field describes why the metadata could not be updated.

Reviewer: Can we put this in list form?

Author: yep, updated

> <table>

Reviewer 2: Can we have tables embedded without the file extension being `.mdx`? Please double check

Author: Docusaurus can do html in `.md`: https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features#details. I think for any JSX we would need an mdx file.

Also checked preview and looks fine: https://deploy-preview-120--imx-docs-prod.netlify.app/docs/asset-metadata-refreshes#viewing-metadata-refresh-errors

Reviewer: I assume this is required to have the `code` blocks?

Author: yep its the html for this table:
<img width="985" alt="Screen Shot 2022-09-13 at 8 52 49 am" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24609799/189772185-825c4a8a-4c27-42b5-baf8-d37717f86ed8.png">

  <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Error code
    </th>
    <th>
      Description
    </th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <code>unable_to_retrieve_metadata</code>
    </td>
    <td>
      The metadata refresh service was unable to get a response from the Metadata API, for example the API timed out
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <code>invalid_response_status_code</code>
    </td>
    <td>
      The metadata refresh service received a non 200 response code when making a request to the Metadata API
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <code>unable_to_decode_response</code>
    </td>
    <td>
      The response received by the Metadata API was unable to be decoded
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <code>token_not_found</code>
    </td>
    <td>
      The token does not exist in our system
    </td>
  </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- INSERT_LINK - View the OpenAPI specification for requesting a metadata refresh -->

### Getting a list of all metadata refreshes

Users can fetch a list of all metadata refreshes in order to find a particular `refresh_id`, which can then be used to query the status of a particular refresh:

```json

> GET BASE_URL/v1/metadata-refreshes

Reviewer 2: Remove `BASE_URL`

Author: removed

```

The above endpoint will return a list of refreshes ordered by `created_at` , showing the most recent refreshes first.

##### Filter by collection address

The endpoint results can also be filtered by using the the query parameter `collection_address`:

```json

> GET BASE_URL/v1/metadata-refreshes?collection_address=COLLECTION_ADDRESS

Reviewer 2: Remove `BASE_URL`

Author: removed
